# ProjectTwoCS340
Q:How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

A: Writing these programs are pretty straight forward. Maintaining a program by definition is adding functionality and keeping things up to date. The program should be reusable and you should keep the program modular and by doing so you can continue to build on the program instead of rewriting it each time you need to change it. Readability is important as well. Keeping your code in logical order and placing detailed comments makes for a readable program by other programers. Lastly you need to have adaptability. Adaptability is keeping your code modular and keeping each function down to one task. By doing so, you make that function adaptable to any other incoming and outgoind data types. 

Q:How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

A:For me, Approaching a problem with the desired outcome in mind helps with determining which tools I should use in order to acomplish that outcome. Once I have figured out what tools are neccesary to use I would start to build the base-level tools first then begin to write the code for those functions. This project and course was much different that I had originally anticipated and although I had some personal challenges during the course I was able to grasp the techniques and skills to build databases. I have had very basic database courses previous to this course and knew very little about the coding behind them. The previous courses I took didn't have us build a database. It was more so based around how a database works and the very basic steps to change certain features within the database. So taking this course was a totally new experience for me. 

Q:What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

A:A computer scientist is a problem solver! Computer scientists build programs and software that can process more data than a human brain could never possibly do. Computer scientists are a huge part of out technological world and without them we wouldn't have the internet, smart phones, video games, and all the technology around us. We would still be in the stone age with no technology. Computer scientits help companies build programs that allow them to better serve their customers, They build the software used to power our phones and make then do all the functionalities smart phones today can do and much much more. Work on a project like this could help companies find what they need fast and with low overhead. In this project, the company had a specific type of dog and age range they wanted for each task. Researching that by hand would take hours with the 10,000 dog records. This project makes that job fast, effective, and expandable. If they added another 10,000 dogs, it would still work. So, the work is done once instead of every time new data is added.
